# 1. A Tour of Computer System

## 1.1 Information Is Bits + Context

### Source Program

The source program written in text readable by humans is not as seen as it is. The information on the source code is bits + context, which allows us to understand machine representation. Here the word 'bits' matches computational representaiton, while the word 'context' make the representation understandable by humans.

> **My Opinion**
> The syntax on programming language is the rule for communication between human and computer, providing human contexts through the form of bits.

## 1.2 Programs Are Translated by Other Programs into Different Forms

### Compilation System

1. Source program (text)
   | Pre-processor (cpp)
2. Modified Source program (text)
   | Compiler (cc1)
3. Assembly program (text)
   | Assembler (as)
4. Relocatable object programs (binary)
   | Linker (ld)
5. Executable object program (binary)

### Compilation Phase

1. Preprocessing

- Modify the source file, including header file
- Result: (.i) file

2. Compilation

- Translate the (.i) file to assembly file
- Result: (.s) file

3. Assembly

- Translate the (.s) file to program which consists of machine language
- Result: (.o) file

4. Linking

- Link object files (.o) and library files
- Result: executable object file

> **My Opinion**
> The whole system consists of two major types. One is text from humans, the other is binary from computers.

> **Q1.**
> What makes some objects programs are relocatable and others executable?
>
> **A1.**
> The code and data segments in `.o` file have no fixed absolute memory address.
> Here, the symbolic references or relative offsets are used to access the data in `.o` file.
> Those are not fixed, as it can be seen in their name.
> Therefore, the relocation information plays a role of metadata for how the linker should modify the not yet fixed part.
>
> For example, assembly of `call printf` has a symbolic reference to `printf`. The actual memeory address will be determined later.

> **Q2.**
> What is an object file and what reloaction information it has?
>
> **A1.**
> 'Object File' itself means "a file that contains machine code or bytecode ... generated by a compiler or assembler from source code."
> There is a relocation information section in object file. `.rel.text` and `.rel.data` would be a good example.
> They include where to modify, through what to modify, and how to reallocate.
